------------------------------------------
 README file for the BCRooInterface class
------------------------------------------

The BCRooInterface is a model interface developped in order to allow
running BAT (Bayesian Analysis Toolkit) from a data/pdf/prior model
described using RooFit package that is available from ROOT.

Updated documentation as well as eventual patches to the interface
would be made available from the webpage:

    http://www-ekp.physik.uni-karlsruhe.de/~schott/BCRooInterface/

The following lines describe how to get the BCRooInterface to compile
and how to run the provided examples.


INSTALLATION
------------

ROOT 5.24 is required for this version of the interface to work: this
is because we are using some new features of the RooWorkspace class
that has been added in this release of ROOT. The BCRooInterface that
was included in BAT-0.2.1 on the other hand works using a work-around
in case you prefer to use ROOT 5.22.

Compilation of BAT: it is assumed you installed BAT according to:

    http://www.mppmu.mpg.de/bat/?page=install&version=0.2.1

Compilation of BCRooInterface.o and runRooInterface.exe

    cd models/RooInterface
    make


RUNNING (THE EXAMPLES)
----------------------

To run the interface, you need first to prepare a ROOT file that
contains the PDF and prior probability models.

The four examples are provided:

 - Number counting experiment in the presence of signal and
   background. The likelihood being the Poisson formula and the signal
   prior flat.

    root -q -x -l PrepareWorkspace_Poisson.C

 - The same but taking the background yield as a nuisance parameter
   with a Gaussian prior.

    root -q -x -l PrepareWorkspace_Poisson_withSystematics.C

 - Unbinned likelihood model: The signal is assumed to have a gaussian
   PDF and the background a flat shape. The signal prior is flat.

    root -q -x -l PrepareWorkspace_GaussOverFlat.C

 - The same but taking the background yield and the sigma of the
   signal PDF as nuisance parameters with Gaussian priors.

    root -q -x -l PrepareWorkspace_Poisson_withSystematics.C

Then one can use the compiled interface macro. Calling
runRooInterface.exe without arguments will display some help
information and proceed running with default file names. The user can
specify 4 arguments being the name of the ROOT file that contains the
RooWorkspace (holding the RooFit objects representing the
data/pdf/prior/etc), the name of this workspace, the name of the PS
file that will be used to store the resulting plots of the posterior
probability and the number of MCMC iterations. In any case, the ROOT
file should contain a workspace that itself contains:

 - data: a RooAbsData object holding the data measurements
 - model: a RooAbsPdf object holding the probability density function
 - priorPOI and priorNuisance: two RooAbsPdf objects representing
   respectively the prior probability on the parameter of interest and
   the nuisance parameters. The final prior PDF will be a product of
   those two distributions. This separation is done in order to be
   able to re-use these object differently in other statistical
   methods. In case priorPOI or priorNuisance is a null pointer only
   the other one will be used (this way correlation between the POI
   and other nuisance parameters can be accomodated)
 - POI: a RooArgList holding one single object being the parameter of
   interest (used to identify it from other nuisance parameters)
 - parameters: a RooArgList holding all nuisance parameters
   (used to know on which parameters, in addition to the POI, to
   perform the MCMC; the range of those variables define the range to
   use for the MC sampling)

The interface can be run with:

    ./runRooInterface.exe WS_GaussOverFlat_withSystematics.root myWS

Using the default arguments would be similar to:

    ./runRooInterface.exe bat_workspace.root batWS bat_plots.ps 1000000

More documentation, examples and maybe an undated version of this
interface might be available on the webpage:

    http://www-ekp.physik.uni-karlsruhe.de/~schott/BCRooInterface/


LOG OF CHANGES
--------------

27/07/2009: Second version of the interface. Migration to ROOT 5.24:
RooArgList objects can now be stored in the workspace so the temporary
patch can be removed and the interface thus simplified. This however
would not affect any of the results. Some changes are also introduced
to allow specifying the name of the input ROOT file and output PS file
from the command line. These modifications are scheduled to be
included in the next BAT release (version > 0.2.1).

07/04/2009: First version of the interface. While this preliminary
version of the interface requires ROOT 5.22, some work-around are used
because of missing functionalities in RooFit and most of the input
names are hard coded so an updated/simplified version is expected in
July. This code was added to BAT-0.2.1

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
File provided by Gregory Schott <gregory.schott@cern.ch>
